docs/documentation/xT.rst, before:

xT
---

The expected threat or xT model is a possession-based model. That is, it
divides matches into possessions, which are periods of the game where the same
team has control of the ball. The key insights underlying xT are that (1)
players perform actions with the intention to increase their team's chance of
scoring, and (2) the chance of scoring can be adequately captured by only
considering the location of the ball.

Point (2) means that xT represents a game state solely by using the current
location of the ball. Therefore, xT overlays a M×N grid on the pitch in order
to divide it into M⋅N zones. Each zone z is then assigned a value xT(z) that
reflects how threatening teams are at that location, in terms of scoring:

.. figure:: xT_heatmap_grid.png
   :width: 300
   :align: center
   :alt: 


The value of each zone can be learned with a Markov decision process. For an
intuitive explanation of how this works, we refer to `Karun's blog post
<https://karun.in/blog/expected-threat.html>`_.

.. code-block:: python

    import socceraction.xthreat as xthreat


    ## Train model
    xTModel = xthreat.ExpectedThreat(l=16, w=12)
    xTModel.fit(actions)

    ## Predict

    # xT should only be used to value actions that move the ball·
    # and also keep the current team in possession of the ball
    mov_actions = xthreat.get_successful_move_actions(actions)
    mov_actions["xT_value"] = xTModel.predict(mov_actions)


.. seealso:: 

  This `notebook`__ gives an example of the complete pipeline to train and
  apply an xT model.

__ https://github.com/ML-KULeuven/socceraction/blob/master/public-notebooks/EXTRA-run-xT.ipynb

Commit message:

Improve xT code example in docs
The direction of play of SPADL actions has to be converted before the xT model can be applied. This step is added to the code example in the docs.

docs/documentation/xT.rst, after:

xT
---

The expected threat or xT model is a possession-based model. That is, it
divides matches into possessions, which are periods of the game where the same
team has control of the ball. The key insights underlying xT are that (1)
players perform actions with the intention to increase their team's chance of
scoring, and (2) the chance of scoring can be adequately captured by only
considering the location of the ball.

Point (2) means that xT represents a game state solely by using the current
location of the ball. Therefore, xT overlays a M×N grid on the pitch in order
to divide it into M⋅N zones. Each zone z is then assigned a value xT(z) that
reflects how threatening teams are at that location, in terms of scoring:

.. figure:: xT_heatmap_grid.png
   :width: 300
   :align: center
   :alt: 


The value of each zone can be learned with a Markov decision process. For an
intuitive explanation of how this works, we refer to `Karun's blog post
<https://karun.in/blog/expected-threat.html>`_.

.. code-block:: python

    import socceraction.xthreat as xthreat

    # 1. Convert direction of play
    [actions] = fs.play_left_to_right([actions], game.home_team_id)

    # 2. Train xT model
    xTModel = xthreat.ExpectedThreat(l=16, w=12)
    xTModel.fit(actions)

    # 3. Rate ball-progressing actions
    # xT should only be used to value actions that move the ball
    # and that keep the current team in possession of the ball
    mov_actions = xthreat.get_successful_move_actions(actions)
    mov_actions["xT_value"] = xTModel.predict(mov_actions)


.. seealso:: 

  This `notebook`__ gives an example of the complete pipeline to train and
  apply an xT model.

__ https://github.com/ML-KULeuven/socceraction/blob/master/public-notebooks/EXTRA-run-xT.ipynb
